# first-mobile-app
A school assignment project for a Mobile App Development course

## Assignment 1 - Requirements
  - Activity 1 (Show All Advices(Objects))
    - It should show all the currently available Advices(Objects) and allow the user to switch to the next activity.
    - For each Advice(Object) the content and author should be shown (- my edit, I added the category on the side)
    - The activity should allow the user to select a specific category and filter the advice list accordingly.
    
  - Activity 2 (create a new Advice(Object))
    - Selecting Ok should return to the "Show" activity, with the new Advice added.
    - Selecting Cancel should also return  to the "Show" activity, but obviously without showing the new advice.
    - You may either provide a mechanism to select the category for the new advice, or assume that the currently selected category in the "Show activity should be used.
    
    
## Assignment 2 - Requirements
   - In **portrait** orientation the application should behave as Assignment 1, but now only
      using *one activity* which switches between **two fragments** using a navigation graph.
   - In **landscape** orientation the application should also use one activity, but show the two
      fragments side-by-side: the list of advices on the left half of the screen, and the editor for
      entering a new advice on the right half of the screen.
   - Use a **ViewModel** to store the list of advices.

## Assignment 3 - Requirements
   - Implement data persistence by storing all advices and the list of allowed categories in a Room database
   - The Advice entity should include:
	 - an autogenerated integer as the primary key
	 - author, advice and category fields. 
   - Add a ToolBar with an application menu
   - The application should include an option to show a settings screen.
	 - it should contain:
	   - a perference setting for the name of the author (I am not sure if I should add this)
	   - a preference setting for the default category. The available choices must be read from the Room DB.



## Assignment 4 - Requirements

  - The application should now use a server to upload and download advices.
  - The list of allowed categories should now be fetched from the server and stored in the local database when the application starts. The administrator may add new categories to the server at any time, but no categories will ever be removed.
  - New advice should now be uploaded to the server, as well as stored in the local database.
  - When the application starts the currently available advice should also be fetched from the server. Additionally, the user should be able to fetch the advice from the server at any time through some kind of refresh functionality.
  - There should also be a possibility to *periodically* download new advice from the server. Add settings to the preference screen where you can enable/disable this feature and configure the download interval. Note that the minimum interval allowed by the OS when using the WorkManager is 15 minutes.
  - When new advice is downloaded by the periodic service a *notification* should be shown.
  - By tapping the notification the user should be taken to the application.
  - The application obviously need to implement some mechanism to avoid adding the same advice multiple times to the local database when doing multiple refreshes from the server.
  - Also try to consider the case of no network connection when trying to upload or download data.
  - The app should utilize Retrofit for all HTTP communication.
  - Not that the endpoint only support HTTP(cleartext) communication. The app will need to be configured accordingly.




# Current status
  - [x] Assignment 1 completed ​
  - [x] Assignment 2 completed 
  - [x] Assignment 3 completed
  - [ ] Assignment 4 started
